[Blog] New draft of backdrop-filter article. (#1131)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/backdrop-filter/index.md

  <img src="weather_app.jpg" alt="An example of a frosted glass effect.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    An example of a frosted glass effect. <a href="https://dribbble.com/shots/733714-Weather-App?list=tags&tag=android" target="_blank">Source</a>.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Historically, these techniques were difficult to implement on the web, requiring less than perfect [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter). In recent years both [Safari](https://webkit.org/blog/3632/introducing-backdrop-filters/) and Edge have provided these capabilities through the `background-filter` (and alternatively, the `-webkit-backdrop-filter`) property which dynamically blends foreground and background colors based on filter functions. Now Chrome supports `background-filter`, starting in version 76.

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-kitchen_sink.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">

>     A demonstration of the filter functions for <code>backdrop-filter</code>. Try the example on <a href="https://codepen.io/robinrendle/pen/LmzLEL" target="_blank">CodePen</a>.

Reviewer: The <code> tags are being rendered as text.

  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Basics

- The `backdrop-filter` property applies one or more filters to an element, changing the appearance of anything behind the element.
- The overlaying element must be at least partially transparent.
- The overlaying element will get a new stacking context.

{% Aside 'caution' %}
`backdrop-filter` may harm performance. Test it before deploying.
{% endAside %}

> CSS `backdrop-filter` applies one or more filters to the backdrop of an element, leaving the contents unchanged. Some people find its name confusing. Is it changing the background? It does not. Rather, it alters the appearance of whatever is seen through it. It almost goes without saying that if the element has no transparency, that is, if its value is set to `none` there will be no effect on the background.

Reviewer: I believe this still isn't quite right. Whether or not the value of `backrop-filter` is set to `none` doesn't affect transparency. You need to do that another way--by setting `opacity`, having no background, or having a semi-transparent background.

Author: @argyleink The text in question is almost verbatim from your draft. Can you please comment and help us correct?

Reviewer 2: i see, consider this? 
"It almost goes without saying that if you cannot see through the element at all, there will be no effect from `backdrop-filter`."

haha, i dont feel like i was a good tie-breaker here. but this part of the copy is what i agree isn't correct yet "that is, if its value is set to `none` there will be no effect on the background"

Author: Took another crack at it.

The following example illustrates this. For comparison, the image on the left shows how overlapping elements would be rendered if `backdrop-filter` were not used or supported. The image on the right applies `backdrop-filter` and `opacity`. Here's the CSS declaration that defines this.

```css
.frosty-glass-pane {
  opacity: .9;
  backdrop-filter: blur(2px);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">

>   <img src="backdrop-filter.png" alt="The item on the right uses <code>backdrop-filter<code>. The one on the left does not.">

Reviewer: This still isn't ideal for accessibility since there's text in the image. See [WCAG SC 1.4.5](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#images-of-text). I can break this up and put it in a columns widget if that works.

Author: Go ahead.

Reviewer: Done.

Design techniques and styles previously reserved for native operating systems are now performant and achievable with a single CSS declaration. Let's look at some examples.

### Single filter

In the following example, the frosted effect is achieved by combining color and blur. The blur is supplied by `backdrop-filter`, while the color comes from the element's semi-transparent background color.

```css
.blur-behind-me {
  background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.3);
  backdrop-filter: blur(.5rem);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-rgb.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Try this example for yourself in <a href="https://codepen.io/netsi1964/pen/JqBLPK" target="_blank">CodePen</a>.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Multiple filters

Sometimes you'll need multiple filters to achieve the desired effect. To do this, provide a list of filters separated by a space. For example:

```css
.brighten-saturate-and-blur-behind-me {
  backdrop-filter: brightness(150%) saturate(150%) blur(1rem);
}
```

> In the following example, each of the four panes have different combinations of backdrop filters while the same set of shapes are animated behind them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, each of the four panes has a different combination of backdrop filters while the same set of shapes are animated behind them.
```
Number agreement error: _each_ is the subject of the verb _has_ since _of the four panes_ is a prepositional phrase.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-ambient_blur.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Try this example for yourself in <a href="https://codepen.io/pepf/pen/GqZkdj" target="_blank">CodePen</a>.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Overlays

This example shows how to blur a semi-transparent background to make text readable while stylistically blending with a page's background.

```css
.modal {
  backdrop-filter: blur(10px);
  background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.5);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-modal.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Try this <a href="https://mfreed7.github.io/backdrop-filter-feature/examples/scrollable.html" target="_blank">example</a> for yourself.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Text contrast on dynamic backgrounds

> I said earlier that `backdrop-filter` allows performant effects that would be difficult or impossible on the web. An example of this is changing a background in respone to an animation. In this example, `backdrop-filter` maintains the high contrast between the text and its background in spite of what's going on behind the text. It starts with the default background color `darkslategray` and uses `backdrop-filter` to invert the colors after the transformation.

Reviewer: web.dev avoids first person singular. If the revision proposed in the first review doesn't feel good, feel free to go with something else!

  CSS backdrop-filter was made famous by Apple's design team.
  It adds background effects like blurring and transparency to
  the artefacts behind an element.
tags:
  - post
  - css
  - backdrop-filter
---
Translucency, vibrancy, and blurring are effective ways of creating depth while keeping the context of the background content. They support a host of use cases such as frosted glass, video overlays, translucent navigation headers, inappropriate image censoring, image loading, and so on. You may recognize these effects from two popular operating systems: [Windows 10](https://i.kinja-img.com/gawker-media/image/upload/s--9RLXARU4--/c_scale,dpr_2.0,f_auto,fl_progressive,q_80,w_800/trgz8yivyyqrpcnwscu5.png) and [iOS](https://static.businessinsider.com/image/51fd2822eab8eae16e00000b-750.jpg).

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
  <img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/weather_app.jpg" alt="An example of a frosted glass effect.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    An example of a frosted glass effect. <a href="https://dribbble.com/shots/733714-Weather-App?list=tags&tag=android" target="_blank">Source</a>.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> Historically, these effects were difficult to implement on the web, requiring less than perfect [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter). In recent years both [Safari](https://webkit.org/blog/3632/introducing-backdrop-filters/) and Edge have provided these capabilities through the `background-filter` (and alternatively, the `-webkit-backdrop-filter`) property which dynamically blends foreground and background colors based on filter functions. Now Chrome supports `background-filter`, starting in version 76.

Reviewer: @argyleink, sorry to badger, but could you suggest a fallback strategy?

> Historically, these effects were difficult to implement on the web, requiring less than perfect [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter). In recent years both [Safari](https://webkit.org/blog/3632/introducing-backdrop-filters/) and Edge have provided these capabilities through the `background-filter` (and alternatively, the `-webkit-backdrop-filter`) property which dynamically blends foreground and background colors based on filter functions. Now Chrome supports `background-filter`, starting in version 76.

Reviewer 2: sure, i can make 3 suggestions regarding fallback or support handling:
1. use `@supports()` to check for browser support, then you can apply the backdrop filter if there is support, or not do any fancy transparency if there is none. 
2. have a fallback image: aka if you really need the blurry translucency effect, prerender the effect with photoshop or something, then load that image. then you have 0 dependencies on backdrop-filter support
3. use less transparency so the backdrop has more contrast against the foreground content, relieving a dependency on blur to help increase legibility/contrast. 

general/popular advice for backdrop filter is not to fallback, only progressively enhance as opposed to gracefully degrade. advice is usually for perf reasons, though a prerendered image should be quite fine. 

that the sort of content y'all were lookin for?

> Historically, these effects were difficult to implement on the web, requiring less than perfect [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter). In recent years both [Safari](https://webkit.org/blog/3632/introducing-backdrop-filters/) and Edge have provided these capabilities through the `background-filter` (and alternatively, the `-webkit-backdrop-filter`) property which dynamically blends foreground and background colors based on filter functions. Now Chrome supports `background-filter`, starting in version 76.

Reviewer: Yes, perfect, thanks! @jpmedley, will you have time to take a stab at a note about progressive enhancement? With that, I think we can wrap this up!

> Historically, these effects were difficult to implement on the web, requiring less than perfect [hacks or workarounds](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38145368/css-workaround-to-backdrop-filter). In recent years both [Safari](https://webkit.org/blog/3632/introducing-backdrop-filters/) and Edge have provided these capabilities through the `background-filter` (and alternatively, the `-webkit-backdrop-filter`) property which dynamically blends foreground and background colors based on filter functions. Now Chrome supports `background-filter`, starting in version 76.

Author: I've incorporated Adam's feedback.

{% Aside 'key-term' %}
  A backdrop is the painted content behind the element.
{% endAside %}

The following example illustrates this. For comparison, the image on the left shows how overlapping elements would be rendered if `backdrop-filter` were not used or supported. The image on the right shows how these elements appear when the foreground element uses `backdrop-filter`. Here's the CSS declaration that defines this.

```css
.frosty-glass-pane {
  opacity: .9;
  backdrop-filter: blur(2px);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
  <img src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop-filter.png" alt="The item on the right uses <code>backdrop-filter<code>. The one on the left does not.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    The item on the right uses <code>backdrop-filter</code>. The one on the left does not.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Essentials

> The `backdrop-filter` property is like CSS [filters](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/filter) in that all your favorite [filter functions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/filter#Filter_functions) are supported: `blur()`, `brightness()`, `contrast()`, `opacity()`, `drop-shadow()`, and so on. It also supports the `url()` function, if you want to use an external image as the filter, as well as the keywords `none`, `inherit`, `initial`, and `unset`. There are explanations for all of this on [MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/backdrop-filter), including descriptions of syntax, filters, and values.

Author: Done.

> When `backdrop-filter` is set to anything other than `none`, a new [stacking context](https://www.w3.org/TR/CSS21/zindex.html). A [containing block](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block) may also be created, but only if the element has absolute and fixed position descendats.

Author: Fixed.

You can combine filters for rich and clever effects, or use just one filter for more subtle or precise effects. You can even combine them with [SVG filters](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Element/filter).

> As with many features of the modern web, you'll want to know whether the user's browser supports `backdrop-filter` before using it. Do this with `@supports()` as shown below.

Author: Done.

```css
@supports (-webkit-backdrop-filter: none) or (backdrop-filter: none) {
	.ManipulateElement {
		backdrop-filter: blur(10px);
		-webkit-backdrop-filter: blur(10px);
	}
}
```
These essentials provide a foundation for creativity and performance. Design techniques and styles previously reserved for native operating systems are now performant and achievable with a single CSS declaration. Very exciting!

## Basic examples

> Let's look at some examples.

Author: I combined the two examples sections and used the paragraph as the examples introduction.

### Single filter

In the following example, the frosted effect is achieved by combining color and blur. The blur is supplied by `backdrop-filter`, while the color comes from the element's transparent background color. Combined, they produce the blurred, semi-transparent backdrop you see here.

```css
.blur-behind-me {
  background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.3);
  backdrop-filter: blur(.5rem);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">

>     <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-rgb.mp4" type="video/mp4">

Author: @argyleink Can you address this.

>     <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-rgb.mp4" type="video/mp4">

Reviewer 2: the codepen example source are not mine, hence the video with attribution. IMO, typos are reflected on the codepen author, not Google. What exactly is the ask here? Fork the codepen, take credit, fix typos, shoot new video, upload to GCP and then give y'all a new URL? feels rude for just a typo. perhaps reach out to the source author and ask for a typo fix, then i'll shoot a new video? 

an alternative would be committing to creating and owning our own version of the example, tweaking it enough so we dont look like a derivative, and then taking on the debt of managing it.

>     <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-rgb.mp4" type="video/mp4">

Reviewer: In the interest of getting this out the door, I'm OK with letting this issue go. In future posts, though, it'd be awesome if we could manage our own demos so we can control quality, update them when needed, and actually embed them in the post. But I know this post was supposed to be a quick job, and I don't want this task to block it! Thanks for the consideration!

  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Try this example for yourself in <a href="https://codepen.io/netsi1964/pen/JqBLPK" target="_blank">CodePen</a>.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Multiple filters

Sometimes you'll need multiple filters to achieve the desired effect. To do this, provide a list of filters separated by a space.

In the following example, each of the four panes have different combinations of backdrop filters while the same set of shapes are animated behind them.

> ```css

Author: Done.

    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-ambient_blur.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Try this example for yourself in <a href="https://codepen.io/pepf/pen/GqZkdj" target="_blank">CodePen</a>.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Creative examples

Here are some interesting capabilities unlocked with `backdrop-filter`. I find these examples are best for teaching what could beß.

### Overlays

This example shows how to blur a semi-transparent background to make text readable while stylistically blending with a page's background.

```css
.modal {
  backdrop-filter: blur(10px);
  background-color: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.5);
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-modal.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Try this <a href="https://mfreed7.github.io/backdrop-filter-feature/examples/scrollable.html" target="_blank">example</a> for yourself.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

### Text contrast on dynamic backgrounds

> I said earlier that `backdrop-filter` allows performant effects that would be difficult or impossible on the web. The following example shows how to change a background in reponse to an animation. This is done to maintain high contrast between text and its background in spite of what's going on behind the text.

Author: Rewrote.

This animation starts with the default background color `darkslategray` and uses `backdrop-filter` to invert the colors after the transformation.

```css
.container::before {
  z-index: 1;
  background-color: darkslategray;
  filter: invert(1);
}

.container::after {
	-webkit-backdrop-filter: invert(1);
  backdrop-filter: invert(1);
  z-index: 3;
}
```

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/backdrop-filter/backdrop_filter-invert_color.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Try this example from <a href="https://www.chenhuijing.com/#%F0%9F%91%9F">Chen Hui Jing</a> in <a href="https://tympanus.net/codrops-playground/huijing/Qqpwg5Iy/editor" target="_blank">Codrops</a>.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

## Conclusion

> More than 560 of you have upvoted the [Chromium bug](https://crbug.com/497522) over the past few years, clearly marking this as a long awaited CSS feature. The wait is over. Chrome's excited to release `backdrop-filter` in version 76.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post shows only a few of the exciting effects that `backdrop-filter` makes possible. It really is a game changer for visual styles on the web. And with its imminent arrival in Chrome 76—and [more browser support likely on the way](https://wiki.mozilla.org/CSS#2019_Medium_Priorities)—the web is another step closer to truly native-like UI presentation. 
```
Given (a) we're trying to be browser agnostic, and (b) Firefox doesn't yet support backdrop-filter, I tried to reframe this a bit. Not totally happy with it to be honest, so please feel free to make it better!

Author: Noting the upvotes isn't as Chrome centric as it seems. There's a subtext to this comment you need to be aware of. 500 is an unusual number of stars for a Chrome bug. Responding to that unusual number is a demonstration that we support the platform for its own sake, not just for our own profit.

I've added some of your language.

> <figure class="w-figure">

Author: Removed.
